{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17220\viewh15200\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf0 Hi everyone, thanks for your attention after such a long day. I had a few different ideas about what to share with you today. Ultimately I\'92ve decided that instead of presenting a polished talk of work that I have already completed, I\'92d like to give you a taste of a relatively new project. A lot of these ideas and analyses are still evolving, so I look forward to hearing your thoughts!\
\
Ok, so to being, I\'92d like you to think of your closest relationship partner. For many of us, I\'92m guessing that thinking about this person makes us feel good. Perhaps it calms your physiology or lifts your mood. \
\
Indeed, much research shows that close relationship partners play a vital role in modulating our emotional and physiological responses, especially following negative events. \
\
Prior research indicates that seeing a photo of one\'92s mother after recalling an upsetting memory reduces negative mood. Seeing a photo of one\'92s romantic partner leads to feeling less pain. Holding the hand of one\'92s spouse, tempers neural threat responses. And these are just a few of many examples from work on adult relationships, not to mention numerous similar findings from the developmental literature.\
\
So why might relationship partners be so beneficial to us? Well, many have proposed that relationship partners act as safety signals. However, more recent theorizing and empirical work suggests they do more than that: close relationships function as coregulatory systems, in which partners\'92 affective, psychological, and physiological responses become linked in order to help us to maintain or restore homeostasis. \
\
What this means is that one partner\'92s responses influence the other partner\'92s responses at a future time point, and vice versa. \
\
Typically, when hear or think about two individuals becoming linked, we think of concurrent linkage or synchrony. This involves dyad members\'92 responses moving in tandem, at the same time. However, as shown by the figure on the left hand side, coregulation involves more than that\'97partners\'92 responses influence each other 
\i at a future time point
\i0 . \
\
Now, if coregulation is to tell us anything meaningful about how close relationships work, we should expect it to come online in some contexts moreso than in others. We know from countless studies that relationship partners are especially important both during times of distress or difficulty and during times of exploration and advancement. Not surprisingly, these are also contexts in which social support is ubiquitous. Because regulatory needs tend to be extremely salient during social support interactions, this might also be a context in which coregulation becomes activated. Although coregulation has been looked at in a variety of dyadic contexts, ours is the first investigations that we know of to explicitly examine how social support may engender coregulation and therefore account for the robust benefits of close relationships. \
\
 Thus, the aim of this research was to test whether social support interactions give rise to coregulation. In other words, we expect that during social support one partner\'92s responses will predict the other partner\'92s responses at a later time point. Importantly, we expect that coregulation will emerge and strengthen over time, as more support is given. \
\
So, to investigate these hypotheses, we had 78 romantic partner dyads attend a laboratory session, the vast majority of which were heterosexual. \
\
Each partner was taken to a separate room and fitted with psychophysiological sensors. Participants then rested quietly as we measured baseline physiology. We then brought them together to complete a control discussion that involved talking about a shared goal, and then two support discussions. There were two support discussions so that each partner could both receive support for an important issue they described, as well as provide support to their partner. \
\
In order to assess coregulation, throughout the study, we continuously measured heart rate variability from both partners. Heart rate variability captures the regularity of the intervals between heart beats. Prior research consistently suggests that greater variability is often a more beneficial response, and has been linked to both cardiovascular and mental health benefits. This may seem a bit counterintuitive at first. However, consider your heart as a car or engine. High quality engines can speed up and slow down quickly. These engines are flexible and responsive, and we can think of the heart in a similar way. More heart rate variability means that the heart is flexible and responsive, which is good. \
\
Heart rate variability waveforms were scored in 30 second intervals. Support interactions lasted five minutes each, resulting in 10 segments per interaction. So as you can see, this gave us plenty of data to work with.\
\
Here are visualizations of raw data from four example support interactions. Providers are shown with the dashed lines, and recipients are shown with the solid lines. I\'92ve plotted heart rate variability centered on each person\'92s baseline physiology. So as you can see, there are some hints that coregulation might be occurring, especially as the support interactions progress over time. Taking a look at Dyad 156, we see that \'85\
\
So from these visualizations, we have a sense that coreguation might be occurring. The next step was to analyze the data. To do this, we used bayesian multilevel modeling, and drawing on established dyadic analytic procedures, we modeled separate effects for male and female partners . \
\
So what do we find? Well, as expected, we find that coregulation emerges over the course of the support interaction, albeit the effects are somewhat subtle. Let\'92s first examine how female support providers regulate their partners. We see at the start of the interaction that providers and recipients show an inverse association. This levels out during the middle of the interaction, and by the end, we have evidence for coregulation, whereby the providers\'92 heart rate variability predicts the recipients\'92 physiology at the next time point. \
\
We see a similar pattern for how male support recipients influence female support providers. Again, although there does not seem to be any relationship between their heart rate variability at the start of the interaction, we see that by the end, recipients\'92 physiological responses predict providers\'92 physiological responses at the next time point. \
\
Interestingly, we find no evidence whatsoever of coregulation when the roles are reversed\'97when men provide social support and women receive. \
\
Although gender differences in the support literature haven\'92t always been consistent, there is work to suggest that women tend to be more effective support providers, and thus coregulation could be more likely to occur when women provide and men receive. For example, we know from prior work that even though men and women are equally skilled at providing support, women are better at responding sensitively and appropriately to their partner\'92s changing needs. In other words, they\'92re better at adapting to the support situation. We also know that when women are highly distressed, men\'92s support provision tanks. They have trouble being good support providers when their partners are upset. \
\
So in sum, we see that social support seems to give rise to coregulation. Providers\'92 physiological responses predict recipients\'92 physiological responses, suggesting that they are actively regulating their partners. This is also bidirectional, such that recipients regulate providers as well. This could reflect processes such as empathy. And again, we only find evidence for this coregulatory process when women, but not men, provide support.\
\
I note, though, that the coregulation effects are subtle. And perhaps they don\'92t really tell us anything about support processes. So I conducted a series of analyses to test alternative explanations for these results. \
\
First, it seemed possible that perhaps we are just seeing something that actually reflects sychrony, and could simply reflect each partner\'92s natural fluctuations in heart rate variability. While we do find evidence that synchrony does indeed emerge during social support, we also find that the coregulation effect holds when adjusting for synchrony. \
\
Another alternative is that coregulation be an inevitable part of dyadic interactions. We know, for example, that synchrony sometimes emerges when two people sit silently in the same room, blindfolded, with the lights turned off. Perhaps coregulation also happens whenever two people are together? Well, I tested for coregulation during the control discussion, in which partner discussed a shared goal. We don\'92t find evidence for coregulation during this discussion. \
\
Third, perhaps coregulation is really just self-regulation. In other words, maybe it is just some sort of within-person process and any effects on the partner are spurious. To rule out this possibility, I randomly paired dyad members\'92 dyad and reran the analyses. Using random dyad pairings, consisting of people who had never interacted with each other, we do not see this coregulation effect.\
\
Finally, one could ask what the implications of this coregulation might be? For example, one context in which physiological linkage is strongest is during conflict, in which arousal and negativity in one partner are transmitted to the other partner. It\'92s important to understand what physiological coregulation during social support means practically speaking. \
\
To help address this, I will share with you some parts of this project that are still ongoing. My research assistants are currently working tirelessly to perform observational coding on the video footage of these support interactions. This is an extremely labor intensive undertaking, as the videos are being coded in 30-second intervals, which means 10 ratings per measure per video. With 78 dyads and 2 videos each, my RAs are looking at 156 support videos to get through. However, they have coded 30 videos thus far. Although these results are far from final, they should give you a taste about what other kinds of coregulatory processes might be going on during social support. \
\
So, because we only have one video each for 30 dyads. That means that dyads for this purpose are no longer distinguishable by their gender, but rather by role: support provider or recipient. So I\'92m using the same Bayesian multilevel modeling procedure as before, but modeling effects for providers and recipients. I will be able to model effects by gender once the coding is done.\
\
So my coders provided ratings of positive affect using both verbal and nonverbal behaviors.  And here\'92s what we find. Although recipients\'92 positive affect did not predict providers\'92 positive affect, we did find coregulation driven by support providers. So at the start of the conversation, there is no coregulation, but by the middle and strongly towards the end, the more positive affect exhibited by the provider, the more positive affect exhibited by the recipient at the next time point.\
\
So to sum up, we find evidence that social support gives rise to coregulation between dyad members. We find this at the physiological level using heart rate variability with the caveat that coregulation only occurs when women provide support. And we also have a very preliminary hint of this using objective coder ratings of dyad members\'92 affect. We also ruled out several alternative explanations, such that our results could not be explained by synchrony, interpersonal interactions in general, or within-person processes. \
\
Moving forward I have a few directions that I hope to pursue. The first is to finish the observational coding of the support videos. Second, an advantage of the modeling strategy I\'92ve used is that it can reveal really important information about the heterogeneity of these effects, and moving forward I plan to probe this heterogeneity further. This could help elucidate under what conditions coregulation is stronger versus weaker. Perhaps most importantly, I also plan to  reanalyze these data using dynamical systems modeling. This approach allows for more sophisticated inferences about how partners influence each other over time. These models can address questions about the rate of change or \'93velocity\'94 which involves taking the first derivative of the waveform, as well as questions about the speed of change or acceleration/deceleration, which is captured by taking the second derivative. \
\
And finally, It\'92s my hope that with this work, we\'92ll be able to better understand how close relationships and social support in particular afford us benefits critical to wellbeing. \
\
Thank you!\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}